Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer on technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 28. In this
episode, Scott talks with Matt
Barrett from adaptive consulting about
creating high quality reactive users.
Your face is for the
industry. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
I am talking with Matt
Barrett from adaptive consulting about
an application that they have
open source called reactive trader.
Thanks for chatting with me.
Hi Scott, how are you?
Hi, I'm lovely. And this
is really interesting. I, I
love it when people approach
me and they say, Hey,
we put a whole pile
of code on GitHub that
we learned, you know, we
learned from, and now we
want you to learn from,
and you know, people, people
email me a lot and
they say, Hey, we've got
some code. I want you
to take a look at,
but this is more than
that. This is a, not
just a little library you
put together, but you've got
a backend and a website
and WPF, and you're working
on a windows phone version.
This is quite the, a
lot of work that you're
giving away here. Reactive trader.
Yeah, it's a bit of
an investment, I guess, from,
from Adaptive's point of view,
we really wanted to showcase
of interwoven user interfaces in
particular, but more so the
stuff we've learned over the
last five, 10, 15 years
building push-based user interfaces and
what that means. So, so
push based, I guess I
think about, you know, like
stock trading and the prices
are being pushed out from
the server, but I've always
assumed that using, you know,
commodity web technologies that's been
faked, it's usually refreshes or
polling, and that all changed,
you know, with the idea
of, of pushover HTTP. How
did you do that before?
And how is that starting
to change in the industry?
So there's been a lot
of different techniques being cobbled
together. I guess you could
say by various vendors who
have been doing this in
the financial services industry since
the last or since the
late nineties, I should say.
And they've got a bunch
of different techniques that people
are familiar with eye frames,
long polling, exactly the sort
of stuff you mentioned. And
it's gotten now to the
level of maturity where you,
you buy a product, you
use an API and you
get basically What looks like
a socket to you that
can push things at you
and underneath it, the technology
will be trying all these
different sort of connectivity means
and falling back to the
most available one on a
per client basis. Because the
problem with corporate networks is
that they will have very,
very old network infrastructure and
lots of these routers haven't
been rebooted and years and
WebSockets don't work and probably
will never work. So these
guys have got this really
strong background and a fallback
of technologies going all the
way back down to buy
frames and all sorts of
horrible stuff. It's slower, but,
but it works and it
lets you as the application
builder kind of abstract out
the underlying technology. So you
don't have to think about
it and you can just
use it for its benefits
And as signal arts simplified,
a lot of that, I
mean, you could go to
a vendor and say, here's
their service and events implementation,
but is signal or mature
enough? Do you think that
it could be used for
an app like this? Yeah,
thanks. I think so. We
had a lot of success
with that. We didn't, it
didn't cause us any problems.
We use it in a,
in a pretty naive way
because we know that relying
too much on the features
of one particular middleware, we
call these things middlewares, which
means different things to different
people. But then in our
lingo, it's the sort of
software that sits between your
client and your server and
lets you get messages between
the two. And we know
that relying too much on
any one particular functionality of
a particular middleware is going
to cause you pain when
you need to either move
to a different middleware or
start doing things that are
exotic. And then this stuff
exotic is bad and simple
as good. So when I
hit this@reactivetrader.azure websites.net, this is
kind of the online demo
site. You know, I'm seeing
a board of buying and
selling and prices and everything
is moving and you've got
kind of fake data going
from place to place. You
refer to this as a
soft real time system. What
does that mean? Soft real
time. Soft real time is
kind of distinct from hard
real time that there's no
guarantees built into the system
about the timeliness of data
flowing through it. But it's,
it's real time in the
sense that you and I
are seeing the data, the
same information at the same
time. In fact, if you
go ahead and place a
trade just by clicking on
the cell, Well I want
to sell a U S
Japan. Yeah, that just came
up on my screen. So
we're living in the same.
I'm in London and we're
looking at the same stuff,
the same data flowing back
and forth, the same service
distributing process and trades to
all of the people that
are connected at the same
time. It's almost like it's
real time unless it's not
It's realtime unless it's not.
And unless it's not as
where it gets interesting and
where the stuff we've learned
and tried to showcase and
reactive trader is what's interesting
about it. Cause the happy
paths are the happy paths,
right? Everyone sit down and
you knock out some code
replication works when every system
is up and every system
is connected and licensees are
low and bandwidths are high.
That's fantastic. But these real,
these real time systems that
are sitting on clients' desktops,
where they are making very
large financial decisions about whether
to sell or to buy,
you need to make sure
that the user is seeing
the correct information. And also
you need to tell the
user, if you know that
you can't show them the
correct information. And that's a
lot of what we, we
talked about. We wrote a
reactive trader originally because we'd
been invited to speak at
a conference earlier this year
called react comp, which has
some really some pretty big,
heavy hitters and the of
introversion, I guess you could
call it software development space
over the last 20, 30
years, Joe Armstrong and people like
that. And we wanted to
showcase and event driven user
interface and we're adaptive as
a financial services consultancy. And
we couldn't show any of
the applications we built for
our clients. So we thought
it will be interesting to
build an app that showcases
some of the more interesting
parts of the sort of
challenges we face in building
these, these real time, low
latency applications and where they
pretty impressed with what you,
what you did. Yeah, I
think so the talk went
down really well. We got,
we've got a really warm
reaction from it. Everyone was
very positive and it was
a huge amount of fun.
We learned a lot preparing
the talk and, and giving
the talk. And I did
it with a colleague of
mine Lee and we had
a really good time. So
from that respect, we got
a lot out of it
and I think everyone else
did too. How, how is
talk to me a little
bit about reactive. I've talked
briefly with people like Paul
bets around what reactive programming
is. And I feel like
there's, there's a lot happening.
You know, this was something
that had existed existed for
a long time, but there's
been a, a hockey stick
almost in the last maybe
five or 10 years where
people are starting to realize
that for a certain class
of applications, this is really
the only way to go.
Yeah. So I was thinking
about, because I knew that
someone, what you would ask
me a question of what
do you mean by reactive?
And for us reactive is
kind of baked into the
language of what we do,
right? A reactive user and
faces all user interfaces. If
it didn't react as it
broken, he's probably just turn
it off. But for us,
a reactive user interfaces, one
that needs to deal with
very, very large amounts of
events. And it needs to
be able to make sure
that if those events go,
the rate of those incoming
events goes crazy up to
the thousands or hundreds of
thousands of events per second,
that the application doesn't fall
over, lets you keep processing
and doesn't start showing you
updates from a minute ago.
That's not interesting. What we
should be doing is showing
you the state of the
world right now, not what
was happening in minutes ago
when the missus first got
put into a queue Speaking
kind of, you know, ignorantly,
which is something I'm very
good at doing. I can
see thinking about event driven.
Like there's some data coming
from somewhere. I'll just hook
up an event on God
data and then do some
stuff when that happens. And
then I can imagine if
I'm not able to keep
up, I've I've spent time
in applications before where there's
suddenly this flood and the
application starts going dah, dah,
dah, and updating itself. And
it's like, well, wait a
second. What exactly is happening?
Are we trying to catch
up right now? What is
the difference between that kind
of classically event driven from
the perspective of an old
time visual basic three programmer
on event changed kind of
thing versus reactive? Sure. So
for us, it's the thing
that's really enabled us to
write reactive traders so quickly
and so easily was using
reactive extensions. So in, in
the financial services industry in
London with reactive extensions RX
from Microsoft has been picked
up and has really loved.
And we started using it
about 2010. So pretty early
on and in its lifecycle
I guess, and learnt lessons
along the way. And what
using that has allowed us
to do is think about
streams of events, not as
an individual event that you're
dealing with there. And then,
which is kind of like
you implement the method, get
data. And we got a
message and we do something
with it. But instead think
about these things as streams
and time. So you can
say, well, if we see
more than four events in
a second, we need to
do something. Conversely, if we
don't see an event for
four seconds, we also need
to do something. And so
it's sitting inside a, a
mr. Chandler is, it is
a difficult place to try
and do that. You're starting
timers and incrementing counters and
doing all this sort of
the sort of stuff you
tie yourself up and, and
knots pretty quickly. And most
of the time it's so
difficult. You don't do it
because it works fine in
the happy path. And so
you don't conceive of the
case when you suddenly get
a burst of a hundred
messages per second, you don't
think about where that data
is going to be cued.
Is it going to sit
in the PCP Buffalo? Is
that going to sit in
some background thread coming in
for off into the ThreadPool
in your, in your dotnet
processes are going to set,
backed up on a WPF,
dispatcher, you just, you just
don't think about it. You
test and you and you
releasing it. It's fine. But
we really can't do that
with these sorts of applications.
If you start showing people
prices that are five to
10 seconds out of date
and they tied to trade
that they're going to their
trade is going to fail.
And they're going to go
to another client that, which
not what we want. We
want, we want to keep
people using the systems that
we built. And it's just,
it just makes sense. Really.
Google does a lot, has
done a lot of research
about how much lowering response
time on their websites improves
usability and how long people
stick with websites and things
like that. And it's exactly
the same for rich applications.
It wouldn't be any different
when you collect, you want
something to happen straight away.
So just the idea of
reactive programming, formally introduced time,
this, this temporal notion into
what was something that really
had no sense of time.
I would, I would say
it's a pretty key part
of it. Absolutely reactive extinctions
pretty much makes time explicit
to you. You can introduce
time by the use of
schedulers and things, which are,
which are an IPI level
thing that the concept of
it is is there first
and foremost, and that it's,
the API is about pushing
you something and that you
are not in control of
when you get pushed. That
message and that message may
not come to you for
another five or 10 seconds.
So time is very much
first class concept. That's a
good way to think about
it. And you're doing a
reactive work, both in the
UI, on the, on the
client looking at, for example,
the HTML client, but also
in the WPF side and
then presumably on the servers.
Yeah, absolutely. So we, when
we sat down to write
reactive trader, we did a
WPF app and a dotnet
server implementation first and foremost,
talking over signal hours, we've
already said, and we RX
on both sides. So the
server creates these observable streams
and increments and decrements prices.
Like you can see on
your screen here kind of
doing a random walk around
or away from some initial
values we set them up
with and that those events
are put onto a signal,
armed message bus. And at
the other end, we've got,
we, we turn that signal
our API into an, into
an observable stream pretty much
as soon as we can
and then deal with that
all the way up through
the UI, through the traditional
WPF things like a view
model and up until the
binding engine and similarly in
the RX JS implementation, we
do the same thing. We
get called back from the
signal, our JavaScript API, and
we immediately go into an
observable stream and do exactly
the same implementation of business
logic. This thing that I
was mentioning about telling the
user, if the stream has
gone cold. So our observable
streams here have a have
an SLA that says they
will yield a new price
every four seconds. If we
don't see a price in
four seconds, then one of
the little tile that has
gone quiet, we'll go, we'll
go red. And every now
and then you see one
of them flash red, which
is indicating that that's exactly
what's happened. And it's the
same code, the same pattern,
the same asynchronous pattern that
we've implemented in WPF and
the JavaScript version. And also
we're now moving into iOS,
I'm using Xamarin and we'll
probably keep going into windows,
phone and Android and things
like that. Let's look at
that, that, that point for
a second. You said that
when something goes stale, it
turns red. Is that a
view? There you go. Just,
yeah, the Euro Australian dollar
just went red that said,
that basically said, this is
too stale for me to
feel comfortable about. Yeah. We
think that if you try
and trade on this price,
it's not going to work.
And this is kind of
a, yeah, just when they're
at us, this is us
talking. So in the talk
we gave at react, con
three really wanted to highlight
a couple of things. And
one is that it's important
to make technical failures business
events because it's building reliable,
distributed systems is very hard
and the industry is struggling
to do it, but we
don't have to admit failure.
If something goes wrong, we
can always kind of step
out of bounds. Sorry, out
of band with the technical
problem we have, and maybe
flash up a phone number
for someone to call. So
if the price goes stale,
we flashed the screen red,
but in a real system,
we'd probably give a set
of phone number up so
that someone could ring up
and try and get a
price over the phone and
do a trade if they
really felt they needed to.
So this means that from
the client's perspective, this system
didn't go down. The client
was still able to trade,
which is, which is perfect,
which is exactly what sort
of thing we're trying to
do. And thinking about reactive
systems, they're ones that responds
to events. And in this
case, there's a failure somewhere
and we don't want the
system to turn off the
system as a whole needs
to keep going. So it
responds by prompting someone with
a phone number and they
can go and make a
phone call. The I'm looking
at the, the RX JS.
And I guess I'm a
little bit spoiled that I
assume that a JavaScript library
will just have kind of
one JavaScript library. And you
say, here's the model include
this, but they've broken our
XJS into quite a few
things. I would have to
say for the, for the
uninitiated, it is a little
overwhelming there's RX dot all
there's dot light. And then
there's a whole series of
binding and join patterns and
testing and virtual time. Why
is it broken up like
that? And why, what did
you use and why would
I care of you? That
really comes from the reactive
extension style of, of giving
you only the smallest amount
of, of API surface area
that you, that you need,
which is good when you're
a power user, but you're
right. It's a bit intimidating
to begin with. And I
would suggest to people just,
just starting off, use everything
and just play around with
it. Look at the online
videos, figuring out, figuring out
how you build these apps.
There's some great tutorials out
there. Have a look at
reactive traders, see what, see
how we plug everything together
and then realize that most
of the stuff you don't
need and not all of
it sits at the same
level of importance. So once
you've got a bit of
a mental model about the
stuff it's quite easy to
discount and not important things
you don't want. Okay. And
I noticed that one of
the things that's important about
our XJS is that they
unify all the different sources
of information. It's not just
in this case, a data
stream, we've been talking about
trading and this is finance
data stream, but another data
stream might be evented data
like the keyboard or something
that's happening in a web
worker is, is in the
world of reactive. Is everything
a data stream from my
mouse moving to something going
on? Absolutely, absolutely. Everything is
Australian. And that's, that's one
of the things we really
highlighted then in our talk
is that when we picked
up react to extensions and
started using it to deal
with streams of data, like
prices and trades appearing on
the blotter and stuff like
that, it's very natural that
it became so natural to
us, that we also started
seeing streams where before we
thought we were seeing just
request response. So for things
like loading configuration data, when
your application starts up loading
the set of users, you're
entitled to see you or
something like that. We traditionally
think of those as request
response. But actually if you
think about them as request,
tell me what the set
of users I can see
now are, and then keep
telling me about it all
the way through while I'm
running. That's really powerful. Now
you've got an application that
if configuration changes, it will
reconfigure itself. Why do we
want to be telling people
to turn things on, turn
things off again, just to
refresh, to get the latest
set of accounts. So we
really think about all network
calls that we make to
backend services, to API APIs,
whether it's to a rest
API, for example, we would
want in future for it
to just give me back
the answer now, and then
all the answers in the
future. Whenever something changes as
long as we're still interested.
No, that's really interesting because
that takes what I would
think is a traditionally very
hard problem. Like the kind
of the classic configuration changed
event then would involve a,
for most applications, the new
King of all configuration and
then reload from settings. I
mean, I know we've all
written that code before you,
you're saying you would completely
change your, your way of
thinking your perspective on that.
We would, we would, we,
we Can't really do that
for, for these sorts of
financial services applications, if a
regulation or some client exceeds
their credit limit, or there's
some business event that happens
during the course of the
week, we're not in a
position to say we're going
to call up all our
clients and tell them to
turn their app off and
then turn it back on
again. What they will do
is go and use some
other banks trading application. Cause
these guys have no interest
in the, an our problems
they're trying to solve their
problems. We shouldn't be forcing
our problems onto them. So
we very quickly learned that
we have to be able
to push configuration changes, permission
changes. So maybe one of
these currency pairs, you're only
able to trade from Monday
through Wednesday and on Thursday
and Friday, someone else's able
to do it. Well, we
don't want you turning your
app on and off to
get the latest set of
things you can tray. We
will push you a bit
of data that says you
can no longer trade Australia,
U S dollar, and that
will disappear from your screen.
So that configuration is, is
a stream. You think about
it that like, it seems
like layering while important in
programming is super important than
this. Like I assume that
your user interface has no
concept of where this data
comes from. It's all the
idea of model view, model,
and MVVM yeah. Extra important.
The model is a well
architecture view and view model
is, is extra important because
you need to be able
to reason about the different
parts of your application that
are susceptible to these, these
events that will occur sometime
in the future and require
you to make something disappear
or reappear. So it's very
important to understand the life
cycle of your application and
how you will be turning
various features on and off
in response to these events.
So the idea of a
view model, and then some
client data binding that's automatic
is, is a, is important.
What are you using in
both these applications? You've got
a WPF app and you've
got to HTML app. I
assume that the data is
streaming in. And then the
reactive code that you've written
is acting upon that. And
then magically the UI gets
updated. What does that? So
in the WPF app, we
don't have a lot, we're
pretty confident with WPF with
a fairly large bit of
the software landscape in the
industry we work in. So
it's pretty straightforward. We just
have the reactive extensions, API
and observable stream that comes
all the way up. The
view models that we write
subscribed to them and assign
it to the properties. And
the binding engine takes care
of the rest on the
standard WPF binding engine standard
up here, binding engine works
great, nice and lightweight. Everyone
understands it. It's easy to,
it's easy to reason about,
and we don't like the
idea of putting a lot
of complexity into some special
source of the application. The
stuff is complex enough as
it is. And we like
to see everything be done
explicitly to talk about the
JavaScript app. Let me just
Olivier, what did we use
for JavaScript? And we can
edit this but out and
I'll knock out. So for
the JavaScript version, do you
wanna re ask the question
cause I keep rolling. So
What Matt has done is
he just kind of turned
his head to one of
the other developers, Olivia and
asked the question she using
knockout, knockout, Knock out. Yeah,
exactly the same, the same
style from underneath. So an
observable stream comes off the
signal, our API up into
the UI and we just
bind to the knockout. It's
interesting that you're using that
because for people who are
WPF programmers or formerly Silverlight
programmers and are really deep
into MVVM knockout is an
extremely comfortable place to just
kind of drop in. So
you really kind of poured
it, didn't you? Oh yeah.
We, we use TypeScript and
port it from the WPF
implementation that we did directly
into enter TypeScript. Olivia did
that over the course of,
I guess a week or
so. And he's amazed at
it's basically a line-by-line port
and the binding engine that
knockout provides is very similar
to WVF. Maybe it's a
little bit better, cause it's
a bit more modern, a
bit more lightweight, HTML and
CSS is a very good
rendering toolkit. And it's very
fast. That's interesting that you
use TypeScript. I joke in
a talk, but as with
all jokes, there is truth
that a TypeScript is what
a C sharp programmer wishes
JavaScript was. Yeah, absolutely. We
a lot. So we've done
work in HTML apps and
w fats and all sorts
of different things over Adaptive's
history, but that our own
individual careers as programmers. And
one of the things we've
been struggling with a little
bit is how to build
large applications and HTML and
JavaScript when you don't have
inherent structure in your development.
So if you've got 10,
15, 20 developers building an
application that has five, six,
seven different functional components, and
you know that the investment
is going to last for
five to 10 years, you
have a very large concern
about code policy from day
one because you know, this
stuff is going to be
around forever. So you want,
you want strong typing. You
want structure and TypeScript enables
us to get all those
things and kind of opt
in and opt out of
JavaScript when we want to.
But overall have a really
nice structure for how we
build our applications. So that
the idea of strong typing
that safety net was important
because you're in finance. No,
not because of them finances
because the scale of the
applications we know are large
and aren't going to go
away. And that the developers
are many and varied who
will be working on the
project. So compilation I'd like
to say, compilation is the
first unit test. It was
this, this safety net that
was type safety offered. Yeah,
Absolutely. And the ability to
refactor and be confident that
you've caught all the places
where you might've broken a
contract. And at the, at
the protocol layer, coming back
down the protocol area, your
WPF app and your JavaScript
app, both talk signal are
to a back end reactive
server basically. And these, they
speak the exact same thing
and you move right off
the wire into the internal
message bus quickly as possible.
So the signal R is
really at the lowest level
and it's Yup. So we're
pushing Jason back and forth
across signal R and the
common path. So these prices
that are taking, which happened
many, many times a second,
we've optimized that Jason down
to use sort of optimization
you can do with Jason,
which is just use shorter
strings. Then the next step
would be to, to rip
that out and have a
binary representation. And then the
next level of sophistication after
that, which we haven't got
to in reactive trader. And
I don't know if we
will, as to send just
deltas. So just the parts
of the message that changed
that fully described a price,
Assuming that the network latency
and the nut size of
the message in the network
is in fact. Sure. So
we find that even though
a lot of the clients
are, a lot of people
are sitting in and very,
very nice high bandwidth environments.
There's still clients in Vietnam
who are important, people who
were sitting on on the
end of a very long
line of copper, or maybe
not even on copper, maybe
sitting on a three G
or four G connection that
their whole office is using.
And so we need to
be very conscious of the
amount of data we're sending
over the wire. So then
something like be sawn or
binary. Jason might be a
future optimization and then a
Delta over binary. Jason. Absolutely.
That's exactly the sort of
investigation we would do. And
we need to be very
sympathetic to what the middleware
is doing. So we'd need
to look into signal RNC,
how much hitters it seems
with each message. Maybe there's
something that we could, we
could use more closely to
get it, to work nicely
all up and down the
stack. Yeah. And definitely it's
interesting when you're optimizing things
that things are getting so
tight right now that the
size of the HTP headers
may in fact be larger
than the body you really
want to optimize was web
sockets. Of course, once you
start that connection and you
can be just a few
bites. Absolutely. So we would
move to WebSockets as quickly
as possible. And in fact,
reactive trader starts up downloads,
JavaScript, HTML, and CSS from
the website, and then switches
immediately over to a web
socket connection. So there's no
rest API behind any of
us. It's all web sockets.
All of them are WebSocket
service calls. And that's the
way we think everyone will
be writing these applications in
the future. Because once you
have a connection running, you
don't need to go about
establishing that TCP handshake all
over again. If you've already
got, you've got an active
connection and a duplex pipe
that lets you send things
back and forth really easily.
And you did your, your
windows app in WPF. And
I think WPF sometimes gets
a bad name just because
there haven't been a whole
series of updates to WPF.
I'm curious why you didn't
do a windows eight Fullscreen
app and what your opinion
is about WPF in for
this kind of app. Sure.
So we actually do have
a windows Fullscreen app where
once we've written the WPF
app, which was kind of
our bread and butter bread
and butter and where we
went first, we started porting
it to other platforms. So
we've got a windows, a
Fullscreen windows store app, and
we're just waiting to do
the last bit of the
last 20%, which will probably
take quite a while to,
to get it up onto
the, onto the windows store.
And we've also started porting
to iOS using Xamarin. So
we're C sharp.net devs first
and foremost, although adaptive as
a consultancy has sort of
the full gamut of technologists
working for it. But we
wanted to learn more about
Xamarin. Cause we see it's
expensive. If you're someone trying
to get an app onto
Android and iOS and windows
phone to rewrite all those
parts of the application over
and over again. And it
seems like Xamarin offers a
really good solution for us.
Yeah, absolutely. And it's very
familiar and the idea that
signal is available on Xamarin
and why you don't have
web sockets directly on iOS,
you can get really, really
close to the same programming
model. Absolutely. And you throw
it up on Azure, it's
up on adaptive, adaptive, reactive
trader.azure websites.net. Yeah. Hopefully people
will be able to play
with it up there. What
are your, what are your
plans for the future? You're
going to put a store
apps in. So you're gonna
have basically four different Store
apps yet iOS, Android, when
those phones to begin with
them, we'll keep going. And
then we're going to try
and pull all the content
together into one place and
kind of try and improve,
improve the story about event
driven, user interfaces and event
driven programming and document more
our mistakes. I guess we've
been doing this stuff for
10 years. We've made a
lot of mistakes and it's
fun to talk about them
and share what we think
is best practice. And also
have the conversation that financial
financial services isn't a secret
place, but because of the
concerns about IP and how
people don't like to talk
about what they're doing, people
don't get to see these
sorts of applications and why
not. They're fun. It's a
cool technical challenge to, to
think about these sorts of
the sort of data and
this much reactivity. And I
think we'll see more and
more users wanting this sort
of responsiveness and they're in
their shopping carts, right? Why
shouldn't, if we're both logged
into a website, why couldn't
I put something in your
cart and you put something
in mind and have it
appear straight away. That seems
like a fun thing for
software to be able to
do in this day and
age. I think the other
thing that's so nice about
this, and it's so generous
for you to release such
a large amount of code
is that it's, it's real.
It is nontrivial. And it's
really a very tidy, you
know, as, as code looks,
it's like, there's a little
imposing and you go, Oh
my goodness. There's like nine
projects here, but it's very
clean. It's very well factored.
It's very, very organized and
it was very easy to
follow. And I noticed also
one of the things that
was kind of interesting is
that you drop some link
pad example queries into the
source code as well. Yeah.
So this is us taking
reactive and event driven programming
to kind of the next
next level, I guess. So
reactive domain models are something
we we've started building and
it's something that we're getting
a lot of traction with.
So this is the idea
that we're all kind of
used to, or we're starting
to become used to asynchronous
service calls. So you make
a call, you get back
and observable or, or a
task. And you know that
the result is going to
come sometime in the future.
But we still have, I
guess you could say synchronous
domain models. So customer dot,
name dot last name, you
know, all this sort of
stuff, but actually what's underlying
that, and this is an
observable or reactive domain model.
So what, that's, what you
can see in that little
link pad strip, where we
go off to the backend
and say, give me all
the currency pairs that I
can, I can look at,
find me the Euro USD
currency pair, give me the
price stream on that currency
here. Tell me when the
price is above or below
a certain rate and then
execute an order. And that
is five lines of query
comprehension, syntax, and a link
pad script. And it reads
and does exactly what it
says. Business users can read
it, but all of it
say synchronous, which is pretty
cool. And that's that level
of asynchrony and being able
to embrace it and use
it for even the most
trivial of truly trivial parts
of your application. Whereas before
the complexity of the asynchrony
would be something you'd say,
Oh, I'm just going to
block here and not worry
about it. I don't have
10 days to do this
properly. I need to get
the job done. Now you
can just put it everywhere
and use it elegantly. And
it leads to really nice
API APIs. So if you
are, I would really encourage
your listeners to download reactive
trader open up link pad
and just start playing around
with the API that we've
got, that we've built the
application on and they can
go and write a command
line, react of trader and
probably an hour. I guess
they could list out the
currency pairs, pick one that
they want to trade against.
Just update the prices into
the console into when they
want to buy or sell.
That's pretty cool. The API
is going to lead them
down the road of success,
get them to fall into
the pit of success, I
guess, because the API will
only expose the different operations
they can perform when they've
got the right data. And
when everything's in the appropriate
state, It was a challenge
to the reader right there
to the listeners. I want
to see an ASCII art
version of traitor. We need
to get that done ASAP.
And I have to say
it is it's very well
factored. And I think your
point of being able to
go in and write queries
over the top of this
API with, with respect to
Arthur, C Clark, I like
to say that any sufficiently
well factored layer of abstraction
is indistinguishable from magic. And
we've definitely pulled that off.
Thank you so much, Matt
Barrett for chatting with me
today, from the folks who
made a reactive trader adaptive
consulting, I'm going to put
links to everything in the
show notes. You can go
and get this at get
hub slash adaptive consulting. There's
a video, there's a complete
walkthrough, it's fantastic stuff, and
a really, really great way
to learn reactive. So thank
you so much for your
time. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.